---
layout: single
title:  "Becoming a Developer: My journey"
date:   2024-05-03 10:20:03 +0100
categories: jekyll update
---

Growing up, I never saw myself as a "computer person". In middle school, I would find a pretext not to participate in ICT classes. I was somewhat decent in math, but in my head programming was an obscure technical wizardry beyond all comprehension.
Fast forward into uni, having doubts about my English and French teaching degree, I toyed with the idea of becoming a programmer when I noticed that some of the teaching tasks like grading tests could be easily automated with scripts. Teaching at school was soul-crushing, and I wanted to see results of my work rather than fighitng kids who, for most part, didn't appreciate the lessons anyway. Coincidentally, at that time I met my partner online who is passionate about and working in tech. I was about to give up from frustration, but with their support, I persevered through Python tutorials and personal projects until it all started making sense. 
Moving to UK, I continued with my studies and enrolled in a software bootcamp, yay! After 3 months of going through web dev (HTML/CSS/JS) + more Python and MongoDB, I landed my first role in a digital agency. Initially, I's prepare json data that would be fed into React component templates, as our clients would need these pages on a regular basis. Over time, I got to build components myself, fix bugs and occasionally do animation for banners.
First few months were exciting until I needed a new challenge and hit job-seeker platforms again. Working in a commercial startup environment was putting stress on me as well. On Cord, I found an eLife Dev position, - positive learning culture, team values and good cause for science appealed to me. 
At first it was quite challenging. I couldn't understand how science publishing itself works, let alone the new model, so it was a steep learning curve. However, I was happy to find myself in a small team of enthusiastic and knowledgeable people. While working on enhanced preprints platform, I deepened my Typescript and React knowledge. I also got to do more testing as there was none in my old place (oh horrors!) using Jest, Playwright and Backstop JS. While I still often get confused with the codebase, I like that there's always opportunity to learn and pick up something new. Impostor Syndrome knocks on the door relentlessly, but I try and ignore it :)
